Do you ever get burnout?

Most people think burnout is only work-life related but it can happen in relationships too. This is because burnout occurs due to being under severe stress over some time.

Relationships can be a source of stress and if the situation doesn’t improve, it could turn into burnout over time.

According to NY Times article, “In a 2021 survey of 1,500 U.S. workers, more than half said they were feeling burned out as a result of their job demands, and a whopping 4.3 million Americans quit their jobs in December in what has come to be known as the “great resignation.” When people think of burnout, mental and emotional symptoms such as feelings of helplessness and cynicism often come to mind. But burnout can lead to physical symptoms as well, and experts say it can be wise to look out for the signs and take steps when you notice them.

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/15/well/live/burnout-work-stress.amp.html


I strongly believe that most of us have experienced one of these signs and more. In most cases, we ignore and continue to suppress them.

There are ways to fix this problem of burnout. Before I do so, I would like to define what burned out is. Some experts say it’s a medical condition, others say it’s not.

Burned out is not defined as a medical condition but as “a manifestation of chronic unmitigated stress” as explained by Dr. Lotte Dyrbye, a physician-scientist who studies burnout at the Mayo Clinic.

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/15/well/live/burnout-work-stress.amp.html

Another article expounds more on this topic.

It says “Burnout reduces productivity and saps your energy, leaving you feeling increasingly helpless, hopeless, cynical, and resentful. Eventually, you may feel like you have nothing more to give”.

https://www.helpguide.org/articles/stress/burnout-prevention-and-recovery.htm

It can get draining and exhausting when you find yourself burned out. Mostly when I experience burnout, I get some sleep or go to the gym to release some steam or stress.

For every problem, there is a solution to it.

Below are some tips to help you avoid burnout.

1. Work with purpose

2. Talk with your supervisor and find ways to manage your workload

3. Exercise regularly

4. Get enough sleep

5. Exercise mindfulness

6. Try a relaxing activity like yoga or meditation

7. Find support from others

You can read more about it if you click the link below 👇🏿

https://www.webmd.com/mental-health/narcissism-symptoms-signs

Hope you enjoyed this week’s blog. Don’t hesitate to leave a comment or feedback. I’d like to hear from you too.

Have a blessed rest of your week.